Hello and welcome back.
During this video I want to talk about
the implementation of sparse modeling, in
other words how do we compute the alpha
that we have seen in the previous videos?
During the video we are also going to
discuss some theoretical results, I'm
just going to mention their existence and
why they are so important.
Let's start with that.
Assume that we have just produced a
signal X as this product, basically as a
sparse model.
So assume that we know the dictionary D
and we randomly pick an alpha with a few
non zero coefficients and we generate X.
And now our goal is to find back this
alpha, so now we know the dictionary.
And, we know the signal and we want to
compute it's sparse representation.
That's our goal right now.
As we said later on we are going to
discuss about how to compute the
dictionary itself, so.
As we have seen in the previous video, we
want to compute the alpha that has the
smallest possible number of non-serial
coefficients, that's also called a
support, and we assume that there is no
noise right now.
We have just generated this signal, so
it's kind of the ideal scenario.
So that's our goal right now.
And there are a number of questions.
One of the questions is why would we get,
with whatever algorithm that we produce
here, that we are going to explain in the
next few slides.
Why are we expected to get exactly the
same alpha that produce the sigma?
In other words, is that alpha unique?
Can you think about a scenario where we
know that alpha non necessarily has to be
unique?
And can you think of a scenario where we
know that alpha will be unique?
Let's think for a second about that
problem.
One example where alpha is not unique if
for example several of the columns of D
are identical.
So.
Let's assume that this was generated by
one of those columns.
I can actually pick any other column,
because they're identical, and I can
replace that alpha by, by the alpha
corresponding to that column.
I assume that column one or two are
identical.
I assume that, basically, I generated
this signal with exactly this pattern.
So, I generated it with the second
column.
But when I go to reconstruct, I can pick
column one, you still have column two,
and therefore, I get that different
alpha.
So that's an example where basically, the
solution is not unique.
An example where the solution is unique
is in DCT, Discrete Cosine Transform or
in the Fourier Transform.
We know that actually the transform of a
Signalling Fourier or in Discrete Cosine
Transform is unique.
So those are cases, now where was the
difference?
In one of the scenarios, D was basically
had the repetitions.
In the other scenario we know that
Fourier and the cosine every column is
independent of the rest, they are both
orthogonal to the rest.
So it looks like the structure of the
dictionary D has a lot to do with the
uniqueness of alpha.
Here comes the second question.
Will I get, because in the previous case
at least the support, the number of
non-zero proficients, meaning the size of
the support, was the same.
Could I get basically maybe even a more
sparse representation than the one that
produce it?
And, once again it's not hard to think
about of an example of that.
Assume that basically you generated a
signal with all these three, and this is
X.
Now assume that by chance that X was part
of the dictionary D.
Then when you're going to try to recover,
your sparsity goes back to 1.
So you went from three to 1.
What's, what's the problem there once
again?
One of the columns is basically a
combination of the others, so if you
produce a signal that has such
combination.
And then you might be able to get it back
without actually less coefficients.
So these two problems, actually the
questions depend a lot on a number of
things.
The dictionary, meaning it's size k, and
also its general structure.
And the basic idea, as we have seen from
this example, is that we want the
dictionary D to have atoms, columns that
are as anchor related as possible to
guarantee that basically we have unique
solutions.
And that basically we get back the
sparsest signal that actually produced
the signal.
So depending on the sparsity level.
Basically, depending on the number of
non-zero coefficients.
And on some conditions on the dictionary.
There is beautiful theoretical research
out there that guarantee uniqueness.
And that guarantee that we get the,
basically, smallest possible support when
we do the type of reconstruction
algorithms that I'm going to show next.
So it's important for us to know the
existence of this very important
theoretical resides in the background
that support the type of techniques that
we are developing and that support the
use and the exploitation of sparse
modelling.
Our goal now, assuming the theoretical
results, is actually to solve sparse
modeling.
So we want to find.
Now, we are giving a signal, y.
Remem-, now is not the ideal case
anymore.
X is going to be represented by this.
So this is our x.
We want to find their representation of
x.
Given the dictionary d such that we get
the smallest possible super meaning the
smallest possible non zero coefficients
and we don't get too far away from the
observation.
And that's our goal right now.
To solve this problem.
This is actually what's called a
commutatorial problem, and it's MP.
It's actually, you cannot solve this
problem as I just posed it in basically
in realistic time.
Let's just explain why.
We're going to basically do the
following, which is the only way to solve
exactly this problem.
We start with L equal one, so we look for
a signal that has sparcity one.
That's what we are going to do first.
So, we generate all the possible supports
of that signal, because L is equal one,
basically the support means only the
first one is active, or only the second
one is active, or only the third one is
active, and so on.
Now, how many possibilities we have?
We have already seen that.
We have l chosen out of k.
In the case of l equal one we have
basically k possibilities.
When we are going to iterate this,
because then we are going to do k equal
two, we have of the order of k square
possibilities.
And as l increases, we're going to have
more and more possibilities.
But for now, we basically have all the
possible supports.
Now with.
Each one of those possible supports will
basically go and solve the fitting
problem.
So we say okay, what happen if I'm only
going to use the first atom?
All what's left is to pick the scale.
How much of that first atom will I use?
And then I solve this problem.
This is a least squares problem.
It's a very simple quadratic problem.
Many ways to solve it, but the basic idea
is that we are going to project the
signal into the atom that we have just
selected.
And we see basically we try for each one
of those.
And we actually seen what's the error.
If the error is less than what we want
then we're done.
We basically peak the alpha that produced
that small error.
Now if there is not then we increase the
support.
So, we have just tried, basically, with L
equal one.
Now let's try with L equal two.
So we pick all the possible supports that
have two none two active, two non-zero
coefficients.
So we say okay,
how can I approximate the signal Y with
the first and second atom together, or
with the first and third atom together,
but with the seventh and the twenty fifth
atom together.
So we pick every possible tool.
Again there are two chosen out of K which
is in the order of K^2 and we try all of
them we solve for each one of them this
problem again just a least squares
problem or a projection on to the
sub-space generated by the selected atoms
we try again we keep going and we keep
going so, thus we solve this.
Basically absolutely no problem.
What's the problem with this technique.
The problem with this technique is the
following.
Assume that K1000.
= 1000, that's a standard size.
It's a good size as I say it's about the
size that we're going to be using when we
talk about imagery noising.
And assume that I tell you they have to
be ten atoms.
So basically it's ten chosen out of 1000.
That's about of the order, starts being
the order of possibilities starts, starts
being about the order of 1000 to the
tenth something like that.
So, it's a very, very large number.
Assume that each one of the computations
that we have here takes about one nano
second.
So, you try all possible supports of size
ten.
You solve this problem in one nano
second.
These are all reasonable numbers.
What you get is that you're going to need
a long, long time to solve this problem.
Look at this number.
It's a huge number.
That's how much you're going to need to
solve the problem if I already gave you
that L is equal ten.
Imagine what would happen if you have to
run over all possible L's.
It's impossible.
That's why the problem is very hard.
It's impossible to solve as it is.
So, are we done with, wick, with this
week?
We just presented a great model that we
cannot solve for it.
No of course we are not done.
Now we are going to have to find a way to
solve this.
How do we do that?
There is actually a couple of fundamental
ways to solve this problem.
Again, a good fitting, with as sparse as
possible representation.
There are again two ways to do that, one
way is what's called relaxation methods.
Can we change these.
For something that is solvable.
Something that we can actually do in our
computer.
Meaning, can we relax our condition in
such a way that it's almost the same, but
we can solve it.
The other way is to do what are called
greedy algorithms, and that means, okay,
forget about finding all of them at the
same time.
Give me the most important item, then the
second, then the third, and so on.
So let us basically briefly present both
of these techniques.
Relaxation methods are also some times
called basis pursuit methods.This is our
problem, this is what we want to solve,
relaxation methods will change this.
Look what I'm doing, I'm replacing the
zero norm, or pseudo-norm by the one
norm.
I'm now, no, not just counting the number
of knowns zero efficients, I'm basically
counting with their magnitude.
Remember in the F0 norm we had a penalty
which was something like this, flat.
Okay.
So there was no penalty when you are zero
and the same penalty when you are non
zero.
Here in the L1 norm.
This was a type of penalty.
It increases with the magnitude.
Now we are a bit surprised.
The beauty of this, is that under certain
conditions, on D and there's certain
conditions on L, the level of sparsity.
Basically we can guarantee that these two
are equivalent.
This is a fantastic result.
It says that I can move from an np
complete and solve other problem into an
l1 problem.
This is a convex problem.
It's solvable.
And sometimes obtain exactly here, the
solution I was looking here, but in a
reasonable time.
Very beautiful theory behind this and.
it's not the only case but it's a
powerful case where relaxation, actually
we don't lose anything, by doing
relaxation.
And this problem has been studied quite a
lot.
As I say, it is called the basis pursuit,
is convex.
So, we can solve.
There is a lot of algorithms in the
literature to solve it.
And in the packages I mentioned that are
free for you to download and to play with
sparse modeling, you have implementations
and very efficient implementations of
these.
And this actually has been the source of
a lot of research in the community
because.
Now that we know that this is convex, and
we're solving, under certain conditions,
the original problem.
Let's try to solve it the best possible
way and this open the door to a lot of
excellent research in this area, and I'm
just mentioning a few here.
The literature is, is huge and you might,
actually.
Know about it from your own research
area.
Now the second say, so this is the
relaxation way and as I say, extremely
powerful.
So you can pick to use one.
The second one is the greedy approach,
the greedy approach is often called the
matching pursuit and the idea is very,
very simple.
Again, remember we have the signal.
That we are trying to approximate.
That would be Y.
We have our dictionary D.
And we are trying to find the sparsest
possible way to represent this signal.
Now, what we do, and much in pursuit is a
standard technique in the statistics
community and it was brought into signal
processing about twenty years ago or
some, or so.
The basic idea is let's find, first find
the most important atom in the
dictionary.
So you go and travel the dictionary.
Let's observe what's happening here.
You travel a dictionary and you find the
first one.
So once again, you go, you try the
dictionary, and you find the most
important one.
What do I mean by the most important one?
The one that minimizes the D alpha - 1^2.
So.
We have the'd' alpha minus'y'.
Square, and this no, this is alpha, this
was cut.
This is no, this no, Y is no.
This is d, this is y, and supports one.
So you try the first one, you try the
second one, you try the third one, you
try the fourth one.
The one that does this the best.
Actually because this is the method we're
using the, this one will be the one that
maximizes the inner product with the
signal Y.
Basically which is the one which is most
parallel to the signal Y.
That's going to be this one.
Now I keep it.
I cannot give it back.
In contrast with what we saw in the
previous slide that we basically tried L
equal one, then tried L equal two, then
tried L equal three.
This I'm forced to keep.
That's why the technique is called
greedy.
Once you select it, you keep it.
So now I selected this, I keep it.
I keep it and there is still an error
here, if the error is below what I wanted
I stop, if not I have an error.
Now the next step is pick the one that
helps you to make that error the smallest
possible.
So, for the first one was Y, what we are
trying to approximate.
For the second one, we're trying to
approximate the error.
If we approximate the error, we add that
atom to our collection, and we are
starting to shrink the error.
So the next time you keep this one.
And basically you go to the one that has
the best fit to the error so far.
So again, you try all of them.
And you keep the one that minimizes the
error.
If you see that again you try all of
them.
And we keep the one that minimizes the
error.
Now, please note I've kept the first one
and I'm now keeping the second one.
Okay.
So I kept the first one and I kept the
second one Now I have a new error because
I'm using two items.
I have a new error and I'm going to pick
the third one that basically approximates
that error again.
And every time all that you're doing is
inner products.
To approximate those errors and now the
algorithm is doable because for every one
they have to try, you basically try N
times, you are picking one at a time
instead of picking this L at a time and
interchanging and putting back and trying
new ones.
The one you pick, you stay with it.
And now this algorithm is very efficient,
it's just a bunch of inner products all
the time.
And you stop when you go to a reasonable
error, an error that satisfies your
requirements.
Now, this is what basically I wrote here,
you stop when your error is satisfied.
There are some variations of this.
The most important one is that every time
that you pick a new atom, because it's
the most important one, you take again
your signal Y.
And you project into all the selected
atoms.
In other words, when I pick the first
atom.
I have a certain coefficient alpha here.
When I picked the second atom, I got a
certain coefficient.
Now, these two are already selected.
So, may be I can take the signal and
change the actual value here and the
actual value here to get a better error.
If I'm already selecting it, why to stay
with the actual coefficient that I got
when I selected it?
I, I'll to change it.
So, every time you change, you do a
projection onto the sub space of all the
selected atoms.
Again that's a least course proceeded to
very fast to implement.
So.
Orthogonal matching pursuit, you select
the best atom so far, you project on to
the best selected atoms, that gives you
an error so far.
Next step you select, once again, the
best atom to minimize that error that you
are getting so far, you project onto all
the atoms and then you keep going.
So that's a very simple algorithm.
Again, it's implemented in some of the
software that we give you the link for.
So, the basic idea is now we have
techniques to solve these problems.
We have techniques which are basically of
several classes.
The greedy algorithms that I just
mentioned to you, that you go one at a
time.
There are variations of that.
There are many, many variations.
Some people say, why don't we pick two at
a time?
I do have, sent computation in time to do
that.
And things like that or there are
Orthogonal Matching Pursuit that I
mentioned.
They are the relaxation algorithms.
The literature is huge in that topic as
well.
And the basic idea was to relax this by
something that will give us hopefully the
same result what we're looking for.
And there hybrid algorithms that do both
of them at the same time in some very
clever combinations.
Now why should I work.
Because there is theory behind them that
tells us that sometimes the relaxation,
although it's a relaxation, it actually
produces the right results.
There are theories that gives us
conditions for that.
There is theory that gives us conditions
for the greedy.
Although it's greedy, sometimes it
produces the right result.
For example, if the matrix D is a Fourier
matrix, you got the right results there.
So there are ways of doing this kind of.
Transform this basically l0 type of
approach, incompletely dissolvable and
there is a beautiful theory that there is
a, when relaxation already, actually
gives us the best, the result that we
were looking for.
If our problem, for example the D matrix
doesn't hold those conditions, in
practice we still use one of these two
classes of algorithms.
Why?
Because solving the real problem is not
doable.
It's impossible, so the best we can do is
do either a relaxation or a greedy.
And if we are in the right conditions we
get the exact solution we were looking
for.
If not hopefully we get a very good
approximation of that.
So where are we so far?
We started by image denoising and looking
for the need of modeling.
We derived sparse modeling as one way of
doing a model of images that will help us
in denoising.
Now we discussed some of the problems and
basically we saw how to solve, how to
compute the alpha that will give us the
representation.
The next step is the dictionary, and
that's what we are going to do in the
next video.
Thank you very much.
I'm looking forward to that.